Life in a Pandemic; Massive Job Cuts, Lots of Homemade Bread
By The Associated Press
May 6, 2020, 11:43 a.m. ET

The outbreak of the coronavirus has dealt a shock to the global economy with unprecedented speed. Following are developments Wednesday related to central governments, the work place and the spread of the virus.

________________________

JOB LOSSES: The pandemic jolted the global economy and millions of jobs have been lost. Those cuts continue daily.

— A memo from the CEO of long-haul carrier Qatar Airways that was was leaked online suggests upcoming layoffs will be “substantial.” The airline has not said publicly how many jobs will be lost.

The email said layoffs would include cabin crew. The Doha-based carrier is one of the three major airlines in the Persian Gulf region created to capitalize on East-West travel.

PREPARING FOR AFTER: Companies, countries, cities and towns are in varying states of recovery from the first wave of the coronavirus.

— Germany has cleared the way for restaurants and remaining shops to reopen in the coming weeks, but it will put restrictions back into place if new infections exceed a predetermined number. Infections have declined significantly in recent weeks.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

Chancellor Angela Merkel said Wednesday that people will be allowed to meet in public with members of another household. Germany’s soccer league, the Bundesliga, will be allowed to resume play in the second half of May.

— Russia is reopening all industrial plants and construction sites in Moscow next week. President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that it will be up to officials in other regions to determine if it’s possible to ease lockdown measures that have been in place since the end of March.

Russia has registered 165,929 coronavirus cases, including 1,537 deaths.

— The U.S. Treasury is reporting massive amounts of borrowing.

Help us report in critical moments.
Subscribe today to support The Times
EARNINGS SEASON: Companies are offering the first look at the damage from the outbreak, though it's an incomplete picture. Tech is seeing the greatest growth, but the category that includes consumer sales has plunged nearly 50%, the worst of any sector, according to S&P Global.

— Mattel is warning of sales declines larger than the 14% tumble it reported Wednesday for the first quarter. The company is counting on a new line of Baby Yoda dolls to goose Christmas sales, but the company's CEO said production won't be ramped up unless there is evidence that consumers are spending money again. Rival toy maker Hasbro has also warned of falling sales in the current quarter.

— The New York Times added 587,000 net new digital subscriptions in the first quarter. That's the highest number of net new subscriptions in a quarter in the company's history. However, ad revenue fell 15.2%, and the company anticipates advertising will decline 50% to 55% in the second quarter compared with a year earlier.

Editors’ Picks
The Japanese Artist Turning Fruits and Vegetables Into Sculpture
Porches, Yards, Driveways, Parking Lots: Where the Neighborhood Is Now
Jane Brody’s Guide to Life in Lockdown
MARKETS: Markets have been roiling for three months because of uncertainty over the duration of the outbreak. The S&P 500 is down 19% in that period. All major U.S. indices are up for the week, however.

— Global stock markets are mostly higher Wednesday as hopes for economic recovery rose after more governments eased anti-virus controls.

TEAM CARB: Sales of electric pasta makers are five times greater than they were last year between mid-March and mid-April, according to the NPD Group, and sales of bread-making machines have quadrupled. There was double-digit growth in sales of waffle irons, electric griddles and rice cookers.